h2. Before you start

* Check that you really want to run Spectrum 2 in gateway mode and not in server mode. The difference is documentation on "What is Spectrum 2":about.html page.
* Install Spectrum 2.  Installation is covered in "Installation section on the main page":index.html.

h2. Configure your XMPP server

XMPP server configuration is addressed on "Configure XMPP server page":configure_xmpp_server.html.

h2. Configure Spectrum 2

Default config file is located at @/etc/spectrum2/transports/spectrum.cfg.example@. To successfully connect Spectrum 2 to your server, change the following options in the following categories and remove the .example suffix (you can name the file as you want, but it has to have .cfg suffix):

|_. Category|_. Option|_. Change to value|_. Meaning|
|service|server_mode|0| Spectrum 2 will act as gateway.|
|service|jid|Jabber ID of your Spectrum 2 transport|You have configured the Jabber ID in your Jabber server config file in previous step.|
|service|password|Password to connect the Jabber server|You have configured the password in your Jabber server config file in previous step.|
|service|server|Your Jabber server IP od hostname|Spectrum 2 will connect that IP/hostname.|
|service|port|Jabber server port to which Spectrum 2 connects|You have configured the port in your Jabber server config file in previous step.|

All config options with description are located at "Config file page":config_file.html.

h3. Choose the Spectrum 2 backend and legacy network

You have to choose the Spectrum 2 backend and legacy network to which this Spectrum 2 gateway will connect the users.

The default backend is "Libpurple backend":libpurple.html. Read the "Libpurple backend documentation":libpurple.html to see how to choose particular legacy network. If you want to use different backend, change the path to it according to "List of backends":backends.html.

h3. Choose the storage backend

|_. Category|_. Option|_. Change to value|_. Meaning|
|database|type|sqlite3|Spectrum 2 will use SQLite3 as storage backend|

You can also use "MySQL":mysql.html or "PostgreSQL":postgresql.html instead of SQLite3 backend.

h2. Start Spectrum 2

The following command should now start your first Spectrum 2 instance:
<pre>
spectrum2_manager start
</pre>

h2. If something goes wrong

Spectrum 2 logs important messages into @/var/log/spectrum2/<jabber_id>/spectrum2.log@. It's always good to check that log if something goes wrong.
